Aegisub uses a simple system for denoting file locations. Most pathnames in Aegisub can be written starting with special variables, that each refer to specific locations.

* '''?data''' - The location where application data are stored. On Windows this is the installation directory (the location of the .exe). On Mac OS X this is inside the application bundle. On other POSIX-like systems this is <tt>$prefix/share/aegisub/</tt>.
* '''?user''' - The location for user data files, this is configuration files, automatic back-ups and some additional things. On Windows this <tt>%APPDATA%\Aegisub\</tt>, on Mac OS X this is <tt>$HOME/Library/Application Support/Aegisub/</tt> and on other POSIX-like systems this is <tt>$HOME/.aegisub/</tt>. Enabling the "local configuration" option changes the value of this.
* '''?temp''' - The system temp directory. Audio cache and any required temporary subtitle files are stored here.
* '''?script''' - Only defined if a script file is open and saved somewhere, in which case it points to the location of the script.
* '''?video''' - Only defined if a video file is loaded. Points at the location of the video file. Do note that this is not a good place to save things with dummy video loaded.
* '''?audio''' - Only defined if an audio file is loaded. Points at the location of the audio file.

{{todo|There's a bunch more that get defined when subs, video and audio are open and have a specific path...}}
: ''I think that's all of them.'' --[[User:TheFluff|TheFluff]] 00:12, 12 January 2008 (EST)