Aegisub has a fairly advanced, customizable audio mode with both the traditional waveform display as well as an alternative spectrum display. Several different timing modes are available for both normal dialog timing and karaoke timing.

[[!template id=Todo text="This page should probably be split into several smaller ones to make it easier to digest, easier to link, less confusing and wall-of-text and to promote going more in depth with the separate topics."]]


## Opening audio ##

To load an audio file into Aegisub, just go to the _Audio_ menu and press _Open audio file_. If you have a video file (with an included audio track) already loaded, you can use _Open audio from video_ instead, which obviously will load the audio track from the video file you currently have loaded. You can open any type of audio file that your [[audio provider|Options#Audio_provider]] can decode, more on this below.


#### Supported formats: Windows ####

Under Microsoft Windows, your audio provider is _Avisynth_ by default, which means that any audio format that your DirectShow environment knows how to decode is supported (at least in theory). For example, if you want to load an AC3 file, you will need an AC3 DirectShow decoder (e.g. AC3filter or ffdshow). _Note:_ some formats seem pretty buggy at the moment. Ones more or less guaranteed to work are (16-bit) PCM-WAV, MP3 and Vorbis, so if your audio doesn't work, try transcoding to one of them, at least temporarily.

**Warning:** If you have opened a video file with more than one audio track (most commonly an MKV or OGM file), and try to open audio from it, Aegisub is completely at the mercy of the splitter when it comes to what audio stream is delivered. Some splitters may deliver both audio streams at once (this will happen for dual audio AVI's, when using the default Windows splitter), and since Aegisub very much doesn't expect that, you will get weird results (and probably crashes). Just remux the file to single audio, or better yet, decompress the desired audio stream to WAV.


#### Supported formats: non-Windows ####

On all other operating systems (MacOS X, GNU/Linux, the BSD variants etc.) your audio provider is _ffmpeg_, which means you can use any audio format that ffmpeg supports (and was compiled with).


### Audio caching ###

If you're loading any audio format that isn't an uncompressed (PCM) Microsoft WAV file, Aegisub needs to decode and cache it first. When loaded, the audio is downmixed to mono (see the [[audio downmixer option|Options#Audio_downmixer]] if you want to grab one channel only instead), decompressed to PCM (a.k.a. WAV), and (by default) loaded into a RAM cache. This means that you will need a _large amount_ of RAM to open a long compressed audio file. If your computer doesn't have a lot of RAM, or if you're working with a full-length movie, refer to the [[audio cache option|Options#Audio_cache]] for instructions on how to make Aegisub use its (slower) hard drive cache instead; or decompress the file to WAV first since Aegisub can read from WAV's directly without need for caching.

The exact amount of memory used for any given audio file can be calculated with the following formula:
    s = ( b * r * l ) / 8
where _s_ is the amount of memory (in bytes - divide by 1024 to get kB), _b_ is the number of bits per sample (always 16 in the current implementation), _r_ is the sample rate in Hz (usually 48000, or 44100 in some cases), and _l_ is the length of the audio (in seconds).

For example, for a 25 minute audio clip at 48 kHz, you will need (16 * 48000 * 25 * 60)/8 = 144000000 bytes ~= 137 MB.

Loading and decompressing the audio into the cache will take a few seconds; Aegisub will display a progress indicator while loading the audio.
