The name **Automation** covers the entire scripting functionality of Aegisub.


## About Automation  ##


The single purpose of Automation is — as the name implies — to automate various aspects of subtitle creation and editing. To date this has mainly been for creating [[karaoke effects|Glossary:Karaoke_effect]] but Aegisub 2 introduces [[Automation 4|Sidebar:History_of_Automation]] which also allows creating more general purpose [[macros|Glossary:Macro]] and also changing the style definitions and other meta data for the subtitles.

Some of the goals of Automation:

* Macros to automate complex subtitle editing tasks
* Export filters to generate complex effects from simpler input

  * Karaoke effects
  * Translation note boxes

  <div></div>
* Probably several yet-undiscovered uses

<div></div>


## Using Automation  ##


Aegisub comes with several Automation scripts already packaged and ready to use. This includes the advanced **[[Karaoke_Templater]]** script (which covers everything _simple-k-replacer_, _line-per-syllable_ and _multi-template_ did in Automation 3) and a **[[collection of macros|Using_the_included_macros]]** to simplify some editing tasks.

Aegisub almost always has several Automation scripts loaded at a time. You can see what scripts are loaded, and load/unload more from the **[[Automation_Manager]]** window.

All Automation scripts also present themselves in Aegisub in one way or another. Some appear as [[macros in the Automation menu|Running_Automation_macros]] and others appear as [[filters in the Export dialog|Exporting]]. Some scripts even appear in both places.


## Automation for programmers  ##


Automation offers several scripting languages that can be used. The main "featured" language is [Lua 5.1](http://www.lua.org) but [Perl](http://www.perl.org/) and [Ruby](http://www.ruby-lang.org/) engines are also available.

Other languages have also been proposed but haven't been implemented yet: JavaScript, Python, Haskell and perhaps support for native dynamic library code (DLL's, so's, dylib's.)

There is several example scripts included with Aegisub to give you a head start on writing your own ones. A word of warning: Unless you are an experienced programmer the _kara-templater.lua_ script is a very bad place to start!

In addition, the Automation 3 scripting interface used in Aegisub 1.10 and earlier is also supported but using the Automation 4 Lua interface is recommended. The Automation 3 environment is reproduced as closely as possible, meaning Lua 5.0 is used instead of Lua 5.1 and all data structures are kept the same. There are however a few minor differences, see more at **[[Moving_from_Automation_3]]**.

If you have previous experience with writing Automation 3 scripts, there is also an **[[overview_of_changes_from_Automation_3]]**.


### Future goals  ###


Apart from the addition of more languages as mentioned above, one major future goal of Automation is to allow _custom file format handlers_ enabling you to make Aegisub read and write almost every imaginable file format so they can be edited with Aegisub.

{{Automation navbox}}

