{{todo|review the whole page}}

Aegisub introduces a more advanced color picker than the default Windows one. It allows you to enter color values using various color spaces, in both HTML and ASS hex, pick colors from a mini-screenshot and use four different color spectrums for graphically picking colors.

== Overview ==

{{todo|screenshot}}

The color picker has the following components:
* Color spectrum 
* Parametric settings for four color-spaces 
* HEX input for ASS and HTML formats 
* Pick-from-screen control, for taking a mini-screenshot and picking a color from it 
* List of last 24 picked colors 

The last used mode of the color spectrum is remembered.

== Using the pick-from-screen function ==

{{todo|this is obsolete}}

# The pick-from-screen control is located to the left of the last-used colors. 
# To start using it, click and drag the X in the corner of the control. 
# As you drag over the screen, the mouse cursor will turn into a cross, and the pick-from-screen control will show a magnification of the area of the screen you're currently pointing to. 
# When you've found the area you want to grab a color from, release the mouse 
# Click on the control outisde the X to pick a color. 

== Descriptions of the color spaces ==

Here's a short round-up of the available color spaces:
* ''RGB'' - Red, Green and Blue, the three component colors a computer monitor uses to display images. In RGB mode, you specify the intensity of each of those three components. 
* ''HSL'' - Hue, Saturation and Luminance. Hue is the actual "color of the color", that is, red, green, blue or a mix of those. Saturation is the "greyness" of the color, the lower the saturation, the closer to a shade of grey, the color becomes. Luminance is the lightness, max luminance means pure white, while zero luminance means pure black. 
* ''HSV'' - Hue, Saturation and Value. Hue and Saturation mean the same as in HSL. Value, however, is different from the luminance in HSL. Value is the "non-blackness" of the color, the smaller the value, the closer the color is to pure black.