[[!template id=toc start=3]]

The **select lines** tool is useful for finding and selecting all lines in the script that matches certain criteria. This can be useful from a number of things ranging from deleting all comment lines to finding all lines said by a certain actor. The tool can be found in the _Subtitles_ menu -> _Select lines_.

<center>[[img/Select_lines.png]]</center>


### Match ###

These controls what criteria will be used for selecting the lines.

* **Match** or **Doesn't match** - Controls whether a "positive" or "negative" matching is done. If you use _match_, all lines that does match the criteria will be considered matching. If you use _doesn't match_, all lines that does _not_ match the criteria will be considered matching.
* **Match case** - Controls case sensitivity, i.e. if the tool should care about the difference between lower and upper case or not.
* **Exact match** - Matches the lines that matches the given string _exactly_.
* **Contains** - Matches the lines that _contains_ the given string.
* **Regular Expression match** - Treats the string as a [regular expression](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression) or "regex", and matches if said expression matches. For a regular expressions tutorial, try reading the [perlretut manual page](http://perldoc.perl.org/perlretut.html) or googling. For a reference of the exact syntax supported by Aegisub, see the [wxWidgets regular expressions reference page](http://www.wxwidgets.org/manuals/stable/wx_wxresyn.html).

<div></div>


### In field ###

This option controls what field of each line will be used for the matching mentioned above. Possible alternatives are:

* **Text** - the main text field
* **Style** - the style field
* **Actor** - the actor field
* **Effect** - the effect field

<div></div>


### Match dialogues/comments ###

Here, you can choose if you want to select from comment lines, dialogue lines or both.


### Action ###

Decides what the tool should do with the lines that matches the given criteria. You can choose between:

* **Set selection** - Your current selection will be discarded and all lines in the script matching the criteria will be selected instead.
* **Add to selection** - Adds all lines in the script that matches the criteria to your current selection.
* **Subtract from selection** - Deselects all currently selected lines that match the criteria.
* **Intersect with selection** - Does the inverse of subtract from selection. That is to say, all lines in the current selection that matches the criteria are kept selected, but everything else is deselected.
<div></div>

