Do you want to support Aegisub? Well, it's easy! 

===Feedback===
You can give us feedback - comments, critiques, suggestions, etc. Bug reports and feature requests are always welcome. Check out our [http://malakith.net/aegisub forums] and the [http://malakith.net/aegibug/ bug tracker], or stop by for a chat in the [irc://irc.rizon.net/aegisub IRC channel].

===Spreading the word===
Like Aegisub? Tell your friends about it! Spreading the word is a good way of helping Aegisub to be the best subtitle editor around.

===Donating===
Feeling generous? Consider giving us a donation! We do this in our spare time, you know.

===Programming===
''"Given enough eyes, all bugs are shallow."''
:--Linus Torvalds
Feel like really helping out, or do you just have some code you want to donate? Some advice from readme.txt in the source tree:

First, some of the code is pretty readable, some is decent, and some is patched up crap. Good luck. ;)

Second, if you want to code anything for Aegisub, you will need to agree to these terms:
# You will release the patch to the public domain or give its copyright to one of the developers. This is to stop a source file from being owned by too many people. (Exception: MAJOR changes might be accepted under BSD license under your name. Consult the developers)
# Make SURE it compiles and works fine before submitting to developers.
#Stick to the coding standards. That is, no GNU-style identing and crap.

Third, this is all available under the BSD license. According to GNU itself, BSD is GPL-compatible, meaning that you can link GPL code to BSD code. Keep in mind, though, that if a source file has mixed BSD and GPL content, it becomes ruled by GPL.