Wikipedia's definition of [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typesetting typesetting] : "'''Typesetting''' involves the presentation of textual material in graphic form on paper or some other medium." In a subtitling context, this means two things:
* Presenting (a translation of) the spoking dialogue to the viewer in an easily readable and visually pleasing form.
* Translating any foreign-language background texts (such as episode titles, scene information like time/place and other plot-important writings on things in the background) and presenting the translation to the viewer, preferably so that it appears that the translation was there all along (yet retaining readability).
Particularly in the fansub community, the word "typesetting" usually refers to the latter of these two.

This page will attempt to give you an introduction to subtitle typesetting. Unfortunately good taste is hard to teach, but we will do our best.

==Dialogue typesetting==
The main goal of dialogue typesetting is '''legibility'''; everything else is just icing on the cake. There's no point in having subtitles if the viewer can't read them. Remember that subtitles frequently require quite fast reading, so ease of recognition is vital. Some guidelines for good legibility:
* Use a plain, uncluttered, no-nonsense typeface. Sans-serif fonts (or if you insist on serifs, "slab serif" fonts) are generally preferable, especially at low video resolutions, since the serifs tend get blurred out, which naturally looks bad. Too thin fonts are also to be avoided. Small caps fonts are bad because the ascenders/descenders of  help recognition of words. Using tried and trusted faces such as Helvetica, Arial or Verdana is not a bad thing; if you want something that looks less "boring" but still readable try a sans-serif font of the "humanist" variety, such as Calibri.
* Use a well-defined but not too thick border. The color is important; the higher the contrast against the main color the better. The white main color/black border combo is well tried and trusted. Shadow is optional; if you use it consider setting it to half-transparent black; solid black tends to hurt legibility.
* Use big friendly letters with comfortable margins; usually subtitles need to be bigger than you think to be easily readable, particularly on a TV screen (since the viewing distance on a TV is usually 2-3 meters, compared to 0.3-0.6m for a computer screen). If you plan on showing your subtitles on a TV you also need to take [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Overscan overscan] into account; Aegisub has an overscan mask feature (see [[Video|working with video]]) that can help you with this. Also consider the aspect ratio of the video; 16:9 or wider aspect ratios give you the opportunity to have longer lines at the expense of vertical space.

{{Todo|examples}}

=="Sign" typesetting==
{{Todo|write this}}

==Further reading==
The Wikipedia page on [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typography typography] has a lot of useful links and explanation of various typesetting-related terms.